- [Instructor] In this course,
we will learn about various aspects of Spring Performance.
And in our studies,
we will cover several valuable measuring
and monitoring tools.
There is every reason that any Spring developer
can have at their fingertips,
on their workstation,
all the tools and capabilities
that we will cover in this course.
So in this lesson,
we're going to review those tools,
give a quick overview of their usage
and give you some ideas
for how to configure your local laptop
in order to have them accessible and convenient.
VisualVM is a handy and popular JVM profiler.
It's bundled with the JDK through Java 8.
After Java 8, you can leverage it
as a standalone download
at visualvm.github.io,
that is where you can get the download for this tool.
Basically in order to install and use this tool,
you download the compressed package,
extract it on your system and run the executable.
Once you have it running,
you can see all of the live Java applications
that are running on your workstation,
including whatever application you're developing
and testing on.
Java Flight Recorder is another tool
in the JVM profiling universe.
It is available both from open JDK
and also from Oracle.
Java Flight Recorder is bundled as a component
of JDK Mission Control.
It's a handy utility for event capture and visualization.
In our lesson,
we will use it to capture startup events
and see nice visualizations
of our demo application's startup details.
Glowroot is another tool that we'll use.
Glowroot is a lightweight,
open-source Java Application Performance Monitor tool.
We'll use it for transaction reporting, trend reporting
and show some instrumentation capabilities of Glowroot.
It's a great tool.
It's open-source, easy to run.
All you need to do to use it is
put a javaagent VM parameter on your application
that you're developing.
Then once you start up,
all of your application's metrics are not only captured
and reported in Glowroot,
but maintained over time.
Glowroot is backed by a database
that will remember all of your development work over time.
And finally Prometheus is another tool that we will use.
It's an open-source Java Application Performance Monitor
in the same category of tools that Glowroot belongs.
It has some different capabilities.
We'll use it in our lessons
to capture Spring Boot actuator metrics
and observe those trending over time.
It's also open-source, easy to run.
You can get it at prometheus.io
and it's basic usage requires a configuration file.
And once you set up Prometheus to look
for your application to be running,
then it will automatically detect your application
and interact it, with it from there.
Let me show you just a little bit
about how I have my workstation set up.
I have all 4 of these measuring and monitoring tools
in a performance utiles directory in my laptop.
They all come in as compressed JAR files.
I extract them here.
So they're all locally in one same place.
Locally, I use IntelliJ.
And so one of the things I like to do is set up
each of these tools as an external tool
on my IntelliJ tool bar,
that looks something like this.
In IntelliJ, you can go to File,
Settings, External Tools.
You can add a tool here.
Let's just for example, add Prometheus.
(keyboard clacks)
Simply browse for it.
Here's the executable, enter it.
And then I can quickly from my toolbar,
access Prometheus and open it up.
When I want to leverage it
to gather some statistics on my application.
Each of these tools have additional plugins
for the various IDEs.
They're different for every IDE.
And so I strongly encourage you to explore the capabilities
that are available in your specific IDE,
so that you have them at your fingertips.
So that performance monitoring becomes second nature
and easy for you.